# Car Insurance – Get a Fast Auto Quote and Save | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Auto Insurance

Car Insurance

Start a car insurance quote online today and see how you can save with GEICO. We've been helping our customers get affordable and reliable auto insurance coverage for over 85 years.

Already have a quote? Continue your previous quote .

Car Insurance that Combines Affordability with Reliable Coverage

Car insurance is an essential type of insurance coverage that not only gives you peace of mind on the road, but is required in most states. With GEICO, you can get a free car insurance quote to find the coverage that best fits your needs and vehicle. From personalized coverage plans to exceptional service, GEICO ensures you have the right auto insurance for wherever the road takes you.

How You Can Save on Car Insurance

Car Insurance Discounts

You may qualify for car insurance discounts with GEICO in a variety of ways, including paying your premium in full, insuring multiple cars, being a safe driver, and more.

Bundle and Save

You could save money on car insurance when you combine your property, motorcycle, boat, or RV insurance with your GEICO auto insurance policy.

More Ways to Save on Car Insurance

GEICO has several discount opportunities for car insurance including savings for good students with a grade average B+, government employees, or by enrolling in DriveEasy, our safe driving program .

Learn more about additional savings →

What Do I Need to Get a Car Insurance Quote?

To make getting a car insurance quote as fast and easy as possible, make sure to have the following information handy:

A valid driver's license

Your vehicle identification number (VIN)

The physical address where your vehicle is stored

Driving history, including accidents and tickets, license suspensions, and any prior claims

Current insurance information, such as your policy declarations page, can make the quote process faster.

During your car insurance quote:

You'll learn about coverage options, including state minimums, to help you choose the best car insurance for you and your family.

We'll also ask you some questions so we can help find you all the savings you may qualify for.

Then, you'll get your personalized car insurance rate. From there you can purchase directly online. It's that easy.

Personalized Auto Insurance Coverage

Personalize your car insurance policy with the coverage that works best for you. GEICO knows that everyone's needs are different, so we make it easy to get a custom auto policy with the right amount of coverage and add-ons. While minimum car insurance coverages vary by state , you may benefit from additional options that provide broader protection. We're here to help you personalize your car insurance policy with the right blend of required and optional coverages.

Car Insurance Coverage Requirements

State laws determine the minimum types and amounts of auto insurance you must carry, but these may not always be enough to fully protect you. Required coverages generally help pay for injuries or property damage caused to others in an accident you're responsible for — and some also offer coverage for you and your passengers.

Common Required Auto Insurance Coverages Include:

Bodily injury coverage

Property damage coverage

Uninsured motorist coverage

Personal Injury Protection or Medical Payments

You can increase your coverage limits above state minimums to ensure a better protection.

Vehicle-Specific Insurance Coverages

These coverages help repair or replace your vehicle if it's damaged in an accident or from events like theft, vandalism, or natural disasters.

Popular Vehicle-Specific Coverage Options

Collision Coverage : Helps pay for damage to your car after a collision, regardless of fault

Comprehensive Coverage : Helps cover non-collision-related damage, like fire, weather, or theft.

If you lease or finance your vehicle, your lender may require these coverages. Even if not required, they can give you peace of mind and reduce unexpected repair costs.

Optional Car Insurance Coverages

Beyond what's legally required, you can choose from additional car insurance coverages that offer extra protection for you, your passengers, and your vehicle.

Optional auto insurance coverage examples:

Medical coverages

Emergency Roadside Service

Rental reimbursement

Mechanical breakdown insurance

Ask yourself:

Would you need a rental while your car is in the shop?

Could you cover the repairs or replacement costs out of pocket?

These options can help bridge the gap between what's required and what's ideal for your situation.

Need Help Deciding What Coverage You Need?

We understand that car insurance can be confusing, and we're here to help. Use our coverage calculator to answer common questions like:

How much bodily injury coverage should I carry?

What deductible makes the most sense for me?

Do I need extra protection beyond state minimums?

Learn more about personalized coverages →

Get a Car Insurance Quote

How to Compare Car Insurance Quotes

To best compare car insurance quotes from different providers, ensure you select the same:

Coverages : Although some are required, make sure you pick the same coverages for each quote.

Policy limits : There are minimum amounts, but using our coverage calculator may help you determine the amount that you may want.

Deductible amounts : Depending on the coverage, you should think about how much you're able to pay to help repair your vehicle. In most cases increasing your deductible could lower your bill.

This approach will give you a clear overview of each insurer's offerings. Request a free car insurance quote from GEICO to explore coverage options tailored to your needs.

Do I Need Auto Insurance?

If you own or lease a car, you need auto insurance. A car insurance policy helps provide financial protection for you, and possibly for others if you're involved in an accident. All it takes is a few minutes to get a personalized car insurance quote with great rates, discounts , and options available to you.

Learn more about car insurance →

Why You Should Choose GEICO for Your Auto Insurance.

Although price is important, service is what you pay for. So, whether you need to make an update to your auto insurance, file a claim, or just have questions about your insurance policies, we can help.

97% Customer Satisfaction**

You can't please everyone, but it doesn't hurt to try. We're committed to:

Taking your feedback seriously

Working hard every day to improve car insurance for you

It's one of the ways we're working to make car insurance simple, quick, and easy.

Convenient Claims and Repairs

Accidents can be stressful. We work to make your car insurance easy.

Report an auto claim anytime online, with our insurance app, or over the phone.

Our Auto Repair Xpress® program is fast and convenient, with guaranteed repairs for as long as you own the vehicle.

Local Insurance Agents

GEICO auto insurance agents are here to help:

Provide personalized service to answer questions about car insurance and more

Be available in person or over the phone to answer your questions

Show our commitment to each community we serve

Find your closest GEICO insurance agent.

More Reasons to Choose GEICO for Car Insurance

Benefits of GEICO Car Insurance coverage:

$900+ average annual savings as reported by new policyholders*

Car insurance discounts personalized for you

Over 85 years of experience in insurance

24/7 Emergency Roadside Service

Add Emergency Road Service coverage to your car insurance policy to help with:

Jump starts

Labor to change a flat tire

Towing (non-accident related), and more

Easier in the App

Scan this QR code and download the GEICO mobile app.

We're dedicated to making car insurance easier in our app and online with:

1 tap bill pay

Digital ID cards

Policy Changes

Claims filing, and more

Easier in the App

Scan this QR code and download the GEICO mobile app.

We're dedicated to making car insurance easier in our app and online with:

1 tap bill pay

Digital ID cards

Policy Changes

Claims filing, and more

Our focus is on creating and improving the things important to you. Need help? You can also use the GEICO Mobile app to access our virtual assistant or chat with us about your car insurance needs.

Car Insurance for Special Situations

Every driver's situation is different, and GEICO helps you get the right coverage no matter what you drive or how you drive. From teen drivers to car enthusiasts, our flexible coverage options can adapt to your life on the road.

Teen Drivers

Adding a new driver to your policy? GEICO provides coverage options and discounts for teen drivers to help you save while keeping your family protected.

Learn more about teen driver car insurance

Classic Cars

Own a classic or antique vehicle? GEICO Insurance Agency can help you find the specialized coverages you need to protect the value of your collectible car.

Get a classic car insurance quote

Military and Federal Employees

We're proud to support active duty, retired, and National Guard or Reserve military members with tailored car insurance options and exclusive discounts.

Explore military car insurance discounts

Senior Drivers

Have years of driving experience under your belt? GEICO offers coverage options and defensive driving discounts for eligible senior drivers who have completed defensive driving courses .

Explore car insurance for senior drivers and get the coverage you need.

Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

Driving an electric or hybrid vehicle? GEICO offers coverage options that can help protect your eco-conscious ride.

Explore electric vehicle insurance options

Whatever your situation, GEICO helps you personalize your auto insurance to fit your lifestyle.

Get a personalized car insurance quote today.

Auto Insurance: Get the answers you're looking for.

How should I compare car insurance quotes?

To best compare car insurance quotes from different providers, ensure you select the same coverage, policy limit, and deductible amount. This approach will provide you with a comprehensive view of each insurer's offerings. Start by getting a car insurance quote from GEICO.

How quickly can I get car insurance coverage?

With GEICO, you can typically get car insurance coverage in a matter of minutes. All you need to do is contact an agent or visit our website or mobile app and fill out an application. Be prepared to provide details about your vehicle, driving history, and personal information. Once you've completed the application, chosen your coverage, and made your first payment, your coverage begins on the date specified in the policy.

What does basic car insurance cover?

Basic car insurance typically covers liability and personal injury protection (PIP). Liability coverage includes bodily injury and property damage to others if you're at fault in an accident, and PIP pays for medical expenses for you and your passengers. Depending on your state, some basic policies also offer uninsured motorist coverage to protect you if the other driver lacks insurance. It's always best to check with your insurer to determine your policy's coverage.

What factors influence the cost of car insurance?

Car insurance rates can be influenced by many factors, including:

Your age, gender, and driving history

Where you live

Vehicle usage

Your car's year, make, model, and safety features

Coverage amount

And more

What auto insurance coverages are available?

Your auto insurance policy consists of multiple car insurance coverages . Coverages provide protection in different situations. Coverages have different limits and may have deductibles. Specific coverages and limits may also be required by a lienholder or lender.

What is typically not covered by personal car insurance?

Although personal car insurance provides essential financial protection, it doesn't cover everything. What isn't covered varies by policy and insurer, but car insurance policies typically don't cover:

Routine maintenance

Wear and tear

Personal items inside your vehicle

Ride-sharing and commercial usage

General mechanical breakdowns

Injuries to pets

Do you offer Claim Forgiveness?

Yes, we offer Claim Forgiveness (not available in CA and MA) to help keep your insurance rates affordable. In most states GEICO Claim Forgiveness *** can be earned or purchased. In other words, if eligible you may be able to get Claim Forgiveness for free or buy it as an upgrade to your policy.

What auto insurance payment methods and plans are available?

GEICO offers flexible ways to pay your car insurance bill, including various payment methods and installment plans. You can determine the best car insurance payment option for you and we'll provide the details.

How do I know what type of car insurance I need?

To determine what car insurance you need, start by researching your state's coverage requirements. From there, consider your vehicle's age, value, and your personal driving habits. If you drive a newer car or have a loan, collision and comprehensive coverages may be beneficial. For older vehicles or limited budgets, liability coverage alone might be enough to give you peace of mind.

Car Insurance Articles and Resources

How to Shop for Car Insurance

Car Insurance Coverage for Rental Cars

Defensive Driving Safety Tips

Additional Auto Insurance FAQs

Additional Auto and Vehicle Insurance Options

Motorcycle Insurance

RV Insurance

Commercial Auto Insurance

Classic Car Insurance

Mexico Auto Insurance

*Discount availability, amount, and eligibility criteria may vary between states and/or GEICO companies.

*DriveEasy is an optional program that is not available in all states and situations. Premium rates generally will vary based on participation in the program and the driving habits logged by the app. All enrolled drivers on a policy need to participate. Driver enrollment requirements differ by state and program details and are presented during your quote.

*Average savings amount based on national GEICO New Policyholder survey data from June 2024 through May 2025.

**Customer satisfaction based on an independent study conducted by Alan Newman Research, 2023

***Free Claims Forgiveness applies to eligible rated drivers who have been accident free for five years or more. It may not apply to drivers under 21 years of age.

Claim Forgiveness applies only to your first qualifying loss. Your insurance rate won't go up as a result of your first surchargeable, qualifying loss. Subsequent occurrences do not qualify for Claim Forgiveness. Claim Forgiveness eligibility is determined by your specific policy type, as well as your state laws and regulations. Terms vary according to state law.

In North Carolina, Emergency Road Service (ERS) is called Towing and Labor Coverage. Services offered may vary by state.

GEICO is a registered service mark of Government Employees Insurance Company, Washington, DC 20076, a Berkshire Hathaway Inc. subsidiary. © 2024 GEICO

Get Auto Insurance Quote Start Quote
