# What is Medical Payments Coverage (Med Pay)? | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/med-pay/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/med-pay/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Medical payments coverage is optional in some states and required in others. Medical payments, also known as med pay, helps pay medical bills resulting from injuries from an auto accident. This optional coverage (in most states) can be used regardless of fault for accident-related medical treatment.

Let us help find the right coverage for you.

What does medical payments cover?

Medical payments coverage applies to you, and all listed insureds, who sustained bodily injury caused by car accident while occupying owned or non-owned auto with permission. It may also apply to your passengers. This coverage helps pay for medical bills, including funeral expenses as a result of an accident. Some examples of these medical bills could include:

Doctor visits

ER visits

X-rays

Chiropractic services

Medical payments can also provide coverage if you're injured:

In an accident while in someone else's vehicle

While being struck as a pedestrian

What isn't included under medical payments coverage?

Medical payments coverage doesn't include:

Lost wages

Medical treatment not related to the accident

Replacement services (ex., housekeeping, yard work, childcare, etc.)

Medical payments coverage also does not pay for medical expenses for any parties in other vehicles involved in the accident.

Should you get medical payments coverage on your policy?

Although medical payments coverage is usually optional; it can be helpful to ask yourself a few questions.

Do you have health insurance?

If you do have health insurance, do you have a deductible?

Are you able to pay an unexpected medical expense on your own?

Depending on your responses, you should decide what works best for you.

In some states, medical payments coverage may also help cover your health plan's co-payments and expenses that exceed your health plan's allowances for injuries resulting from an automobile accident.

How much medical payments coverage should you buy?

Each person is different. A good starting place is to think about what medical coverage you may already have. This can include things like health insurance. With that information, you have a better starting place to help choose how much coverage you may need.

In general, medical payments coverage can be bought in specific dollar amounts:

$500

$1,000

$2,500

$5,000

The amount of coverage you pick is the maximum amount available to each person covered.

Let's say you're driving 2 friends to lunch. You have $1,000 in medical payments coverage. A vehicle runs a red light and hits your vehicle. You and your passengers are injured and need to go to the emergency room. You and each of your passengers may have up to $1,000 to help pay for medical bills related to the accident.

Medical payments coverage limits

Medical payments insurance covers up to a set limit for medical expenses. You choose this limit when purchasing coverage. Any expenses beyond this limit are your responsibility. Consider your potential short-term emergency medical costs, such as those from a car accident. For instance, if you incur a $2,000 deductible and coinsurance for an ER visit, having medical payments coverage with a $3,000 limit could assist in covering these expenses.

What is the difference between medical payments and personal injury protection (PIP)?

Personal Injury Protection (PIP) , like medical payments coverage, assists in covering medical expenses for you or your passengers after a car accident, regardless of fault. However, there are a few key differences:

PIP is available in "no-fault" states, while medical payments coverage is offered in states without "no-fault" laws. Some states offer both, while others exclusively provide medical payments coverage in non-PIP states.

PIP's requirement varies by state law; sometimes mandatory and sometimes optional. Medical payments insurance is typically optional in most states.

PIP may cover additional expenses that medical payments insurance does not include, like lost wages or childcare for essential services.

These coverages may vary by state. Some states offer PIP coverage which is similar to med pay. For more information about your state, you can check out our state information pages .

Does auto insurance cover medical expenses?

Auto liability insurance , mandatory in most states, pays for the other driver's damages if you cause an accident. It doesn't typically cover your medical expenses, but adding medical payments coverage can provide that protection.

Please note:

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages.
