# Uninsured and Underinsured Motorist Coverage Explained | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/uninsured-underinsured-motorist/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/uninsured-underinsured-motorist/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

What is uninsured motorist coverage?

Uninsured Motorist (UM) coverage is an additional coverage that can be added to your car insurance policy. Some states may require this coverage on your policy. If you're injured in a car accident by an uninsured driver (a driver with no car insurance)—or in some states, a hit-and-run driver—then Uninsured Motorist coverage could help pay for your expenses. In some states, Underinsured Motorist (UIM) coverage is also available if you're in an accident with a driver whose insurance policy limits are not sufficient enough to cover your vehicle damages or bodily injury expenses.

What are the two types of Uninsured Motorist coverage?

GEICO offers Uninsured Motorist Bodily Injury coverage (UMBI) and Uninsured Motorist Property Damage coverage (UMPD).*

Uninsured Motorist Bodily Injury Coverage (UMBI)

If you're injured by someone who doesn't have car insurance, then Uninsured Motorist Bodily Injury (UMBI) coverage can typically provide compensation for the following expenses:

Medical expenses

Funeral expenses

Loss of income

Pain and suffering

Without UMBI coverage, you could be held responsible for paying your own medical expenses. You may be able to report a claim under other coverages such as medical payments , personal injury protection (PIP) , or your own medical insurance. Meanwhile, UMBI may help cover your other non-medical expenses such as lost wages and pain and suffering.

Uninsured Motorist Property Damage Coverage (UMPD)

If your car is damaged by an uninsured motorist, then uninsured motorist property damage provides coverage for repairs to your car, up to its actual cash value. If your auto policy doesn't include UMPD coverage or collision coverage, then you would have to pay for the car repairs or file a claim against the at-fault driver in court.

What is Underinsured Motorist coverage (UIM)?

Underinsured motorist coverage is available in some states. This coverage helps protect you from at-fault drivers who cause a car accident and don't have enough insurance to pay for your injuries or damages. UIM is broken into the same categories as UM: bodily injury and property damage. Please check to see if this coverage is available and how the coverage is applied in your state.**

States that require uninsured and/or underinsured motorist coverage

Uninsured/underinsured motorist (UM/UIM) coverage is mandatory in many states—like Connecticut, Illinois, and Maryland—to protect drivers from costs associated with accidents involving drivers with inadequate coverage. Each state has specific requirements and coverage limits, so it's important to check the details applicable to your state. Learn more about car insurance requirements by state .

What happens if I don’t get uninsured or underinsured motorist coverage?

Not having uninsured (UM) or underinsured motorist (UIM) coverage can put you at significant financial risk in the event of an accident with a motorist who has inadequate auto insurance coverage. If the at-fault driver doesn't have enough insurance to pay for all the damages you sustained in the accident like medical bills, for example, you may have to pay more costs out-of-pocket. Also, the at-fault driver's insurance may not fully compensate you for your pain and suffering.

How do I know if I have UM or UIM on my GEICO policy?

Log into your policy

Select your auto policy

View/Edit Coverage

Get car insurance coverage from GEICO

Don't wait until it is too late to find out your insurance coverage isn’t enough. Protect yourself and your family on the road by reviewing, adding, or updating your uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage with GEICO today. Our coverage plans are designed to give you peace of mind, knowing you're protected against the costs incurred from accidents with uninsured or underinsured drivers.

GEICO has affordable car insurance rates along with a number of available discounts. You can also compare car insurance quotes to see how GEICO stacks up against other insurers. Get a car insurance quote now and see what makes sense for your needs and budget.

*Some discounts, coverages, payment plans and features are not available in all states or all GEICO companies.

**Coverage is subject to the terms, limits and conditions of your policy contract.

Please note:

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages.
