# What is comprehensive car insurance and what does it cover? | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/comp-coverage/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/comp-coverage/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

What is comprehensive car insurance coverage?

Comprehensive coverage helps cover the cost of damages to your vehicle when you're involved in an incident that's not caused by a collision with another vehicle. Comprehensive car insurance can cover losses like theft, vandalism, hail, flooding, or hitting an animal. For example, if you are driving and hit a deer, the damage could be covered under comprehensive coverage. However, if your vehicle were to hit another vehicle or object, this would fall under collision coverage.

Comprehensive car insurance is an optional coverage you can carry to help protect your vehicle. Unlike some coverages, you don't select a limit for comprehensive vehicle insurance. The maximum payout is based on the actual cash value of your vehicle. You will be responsible for paying your selected car insurance deductible .

Let's work together to find the right coverage for you.

What does comprehensive car insurance cover?

Comprehensive coverage covers damages to your vehicle in certain situations. It's sometimes referred to as "other than collision" coverage. All that means is that it may cover damages to your vehicle that collision coverage doesn't. This may include, but is not limited to, things like:

Theft

Glass breakage not resulting from a collision

Fire

Floods and hail

Hitting an animal

What damage is not covered by comprehensive coverage?

Comprehensive coverage does not cover damages caused by hitting another vehicle or object. These incidents are covered under collision coverage . Normal wear and tear on your vehicle is also not covered by comprehensive car insurance. Normal wear and tear includes items that normally need to be replaced over time from usage such as:

Belts and hoses

Brakes

Tires

Windshield wipers

Comprehensive Coverage vs. Collision Coverage

Comprehensive coverage and collision coverage can be used to help repair the damages caused to your vehicle in an accident. Both coverages have a deductible you are responsible for paying before the coverage starts covering the damage. The coverages differ in the situations in which they apply.

Comprehensive coverage applies when:

Your car hits a deer

Someone steals your vehicle

Your car is damaged in a hailstorm

Collision coverage applies when:

You swerve to miss a dog and hit a fence

Another vehicle hits your vehicle

You have a single car accident with damage to the vehicle

Why should you buy comprehensive coverage?

Comprehensive coverage:

Can be used no matter who's at fault

Helps pay for repairs, over your deductible, so you're not stuck paying the entire bill on your own

Not required by law in any state, but is usually required by lenders if you are leasing or financing your vehicle

Worthwhile if your vehicle has a higher cash value or if you cannot afford to repair or replace it out of pocket

What is a comprehensive deductible?

A comprehensive deductible is the amount you've agreed to pay before the insurance company starts paying for damages. You can think of it as how much of the financial risk you're willing to take on if you're in an accident. Typically, the more risk you're willing to take (higher deductible), the lower your insurance cost would be. The less risk (lower deductible), the higher your insurance costs would be.

Let's say there's a bad hailstorm in your area and your vehicle has $1,000 in damage. You have a $100 deductible on your comprehensive coverage. You'll pay the first $100, and then your insurance company will pay the remaining $900 of the vehicle repair bill. If you have an older vehicle, you may want to consider whether you need comprehensive coverage as it is normally limited to the actual cash value of your car.

Comprehensive car insurance FAQs

When is comprehensive insurance worth it?

Comprehensive coverage is worth the investment if you want financial protection against non-collision damages like theft, vandalism, or natural disasters. It can be especially vital if your car is new, valuable, frequently parked in high-risk areas, or if you live in a region prone to extreme weather.

Is comprehensive insurance the same as full coverage?

No, comprehensive insurance is not the same as full coverage, as it specifically covers non-collision damages. While "full coverage" is not an actual insurance term, it is typically referring to a policy that includes comprehensive, collision, and liability insurance.

Is it better to have comprehensive or collision coverage?

The selection of coverages you carry should depend on your specific needs. If your vehicle is valuable or you want protection after a loss, carrying both collision and comprehensive coverage is ideal. However, if your vehicle is older, you may decide that only carrying one or neither of the coverages are best for your circumstances.

Should I get comprehensive coverage or liability coverage?

Comprehensive coverage is great for protection against theft, vandalism, and natural disasters, especially for newer or high-value vehicles. Liability insurance only covers damages to others, making it suitable for older, lower-value cars. It's important to understand that these coverages are separate from each other. You can purchase just liability coverage or both liability and comprehensive coverages depending on your situation and desired level of protection.

Please note:

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages.
