# Rental Reimbursement: Renting A Car Or Other Vehicle | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/claims/claimsprocess/vehicle-rental/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/claims/claimsprocess/vehicle-rental/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Log in to add Rental Reimbursement Coverage

Log In

Sign up for online access

Forgot your password ?

OR

Report or track a claim

View My Claim Report New Claim

What is Rental Reimbursement?

Rental Reimbursement* is an optional coverage that helps pay your rental car costs while your car is being repaired as a result of a covered claim.

You can generally keep the rental car until your damaged vehicle is back on the road or until your coverage limit runs out, whichever comes first. If your vehicle is a total loss , the amount of authorized rental time will be limited, so you should begin shopping for a replacement as soon as you learn your vehicle is a total loss.

What is covered?

Rental reimbursement coverage may be subject to a daily and per claim limit.

For example, if you have $25 per day/$750 per claim rental reimbursement limits, GEICO will pay up to $25 per day but no more than $750 per claim for your rental vehicle.

If you choose to use Enterprise Rent-A-Car ® , GEICO will be billed directly for your rental car.

You have a right to use any rental provider or location you choose. If you choose another rental provider you may have to pay the cost upfront and we will reimburse you up to the limits of your rental reimbursement coverage. Ask the rental company if direct billing is available. In all cases you may be subject to providing a credit card to meet the rental company's security deposit requirement.

What is not covered?

Rental Reimbursement does not cover the costs of gas, mileage or additional coverage, or any security deposit required by the rental company.

Most rental car providers will ask you to purchase additional insurance from them to cover the rental car. Keep in mind, if you have comprehensive and collision coverage on your GEICO policy, they will usually transfer to your rental car while your vehicle's accident damage is being repaired. You should decide for yourself if you want to purchase insurance coverage from the rental provider. Your GEICO liability examiner can provide more information and assist you with this decision.

In most states, you can rent a car of a comparable size to your own vehicle. However, if the daily rate of your rental car is more than your daily limit, you will have to pay the difference. Also, if your vehicle repairs are going to take several weeks, you may want to rent a car with a lower daily rate so your rental reimbursement limit will last longer.

This material is intended for general information only. It does not expand coverage beyond the policy contract. Please refer to your policy contract for any specific information or questions on applicability of coverage.

Commonwealth of Virginia

* In Virginia, the term Rental Reimbursement is known as "Transportation Expense."
