# Car Insurance Calculator - Estimate Auto Coverage Needs | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/coverage-calculator/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/coverage-calculator/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Car Insurance Calculator - Estimate Auto Coverage Needs | GEICO

Car Insurance Coverage Calculator

Use our car insurance calculator to generate a personalized car insurance estimate of the coverage limits that may fit your situation. In just a few steps, you can review recommended protection levels before getting a quote.

Learn more about factors that impact your car insurance coverage needs.

The GEICO Coverage Calculator is an educational tool to help you learn about car insurance coverage and the various factors you may want to consider when selecting your limits and deductibles. The information provided is not intended to recommend specific insurance coverage, as it is up to you to evaluate and choose the coverage and limits that most accurately protect you and your property. The coverage options displayed in the Coverage Calculator are general in nature and may not be available in all states or in all situations. Please also note that this tool does not present every coverage option available for each state and situation. GEICO does not warrant the suitability of any coverage amounts that you select.

Marital Status
Tell me a little about yourself to get a personalized car insurance estimate. Select the option that best represents your
situation.

Single
Single with dependents*
Married
Married with dependents*
It's complicated

*Dependents include stay-at home spouses, adult children, and elderly parents that
live in your household and rely on you for support.

Age
What is your current age?

Younger than 25
25 or older

Continue Back

Insurance Coverage
?

Protecting yourself is important. Make sure you have enough coverage to give you
financial peace-of-mind in the event of an at-fault accident.
What's most important to you when shopping for insurance?

Lowest cost
Low cost and good
protection
Best protection

Continue Back

Home Ownership
Do you own your home?

No
Yes

Continue Back

Car Ownership
?

If you finance or lease your vehicle, you'll need to carry Comprehensive and Collision.
In addition, some leasing companies require you to carry specific limits of liability to
ensure they are financially protected.
For the most expensive vehicle you'd like to insure, do you:

Own
Lease
Finance

Continue Back

Vehicle Value
?

This information helps us determine whether you would benefit from carrying
Comprehensive and Collision coverage.
What is the value of most expensive vehicle you'd like to insure?

$5,000 or less
Between $5,000 and $40,000
More than $40,000

Continue Back

Time Spent in Vehicle
?

The more time you spend behind the wheel, the greater your risk of being involved in an
accident
becomes. This is an important factor to consider when choosing your coverage.
Last question! How much time do you spend in your car?

A lot—it would be easier to tell you how much time I spend out of my car!
Average—I mean, I like my car but sometimes I need my space.
Very little—sometimes I feel like a neglectful owner.

Back

Before the results...

Keep in mind that lower limits of liability coverage are available to you. If our suggested limit is
not
affordable at this time, you might consider carrying a lower limit. However, if you choose to do
this, we
recommend periodically reviewing your liability coverage to ensure you have adequate protection in
the event
of an accident.

You may want to consider higher limits of liability if:

You get married.

You have a young driver in your household.

You receive a promotion at work or start at a new job.

You buy a home.
Cool, Keep Going

Check out your options! See how affordable GEICO car insurance could be.

We think you'll like these personalized results. Ultimately, the level and type of auto coverage you carry is up to you. Use these recommendations as a
starting point when considering your coverage. Then, start your free car insurance quote online or contact a local agent to see how much you could save.

Coverage Options

Printer-friendly Version Lower Cost Best Fit More Protection Bodily Injury Liability
?

The more time you spend behind the wheel, the greater your risk of
being involved in an accident becomes. This is an important factor to consider
when
choosing your coverage. Lower Cost N/A Best Fit $50,000 /
$100,000 More Protection N/A Property Damage
Liability
?

Pays for damage to other people's property (such as vehicles,
shrubs,
signs, or buildings) resulting from an at-fault accident. If you do not carry
sufficient coverage, your personal assets and earnings could be at risk. Lower Cost N/A Best Fit $50,000 More Protection N/A Uninsured Motorist
Bodily Injury
?

Pays you, your household relatives, and passengers in your insured
motor vehicle for damages resulting from bodily injury or death arising out of
accidents caused by uninsured motorists and, in most states, by hit-and-run
motorists. These limits must equal your Bodily Injury liability limits unless
you
specifically request lower limits in writing.
The first figure is the maximum amount we will pay for injury or death of
any
one person. The second figure is the maximum we will pay (regardless of the
number
of people involved) for injury or death stemming from a single occurrence.
UMBI coverage and availability varies from state to state; see your policy
contract for details. Lower Cost N/A Best Fit $300,000 /
$300,000 More Protection N/A Uninsured Motorist
Property Damage
?

Pays damages you are legally entitled to recover because of damage
to
your insured vehicle caused by uninsured or hit-and-run motorists. You must
carry
this coverage at the same limit as your Property Damage liability coverage
unless
specifically requested at a lower limit in writing. Uninsured Motorist Property
Damage does not cover the first $200.00 of damage to your vehicle as the result
of
any one accident.
UMPD coverage is not available in all states; see your policy contract for
details. Lower Cost N/A Best Fit $50,000 More Protection N/A
Comprehensive
?

Pays for damage to your car from theft, vandalism, flood, fire
or
other covered perils. Lower Cost N/A Best Fit $250
(suggested deductible) More Protection N/A Collision
?

Pays for damage to an insured vehicle when it hits or is hit
by
another car or object, or if the car overturns. Lower Cost N/A Best Fit $500
(suggested deductible) More Protection N/A

The GEICO Coverage Calculator is an educational tool to help you learn about insurance
coverage
and the various factors you may want to consider when selecting your limits and deductibles.
The
information provided is not intended to recommend specific insurance coverage, as it is up
to
you to evaluate and choose the coverage and limits that most accurately protect you and your
property. The coverage options displayed in the Coverage Calculator are general in nature
and
may not be available in all states or in all situations. Please also note that this tool
does
not present every coverage option available for each state and situation. If you feel you
require higher liability limits than are shown here, call 1-800-841-3000 to receive a quote
for
a GEICO® Personal Umbrella Policy. GEICO does not warrant the suitability of any
coverage
amounts that you select.

Car Insurance Coverage Factors to Consider

Understanding the auto coverages you need can feel overwhelming. Use our car insurance calculator to explore key factors and receive a personalized coverage estimate based on your situation.

Life Events

Things that can greatly impact your auto insurance coverage needs include:

Life events like a change in marital status or moving.

Relocating to another state.

Owning a home (might necessitate higher limits for enhanced protection).

Our car insurance calculator factors in life changes such as marital status and homeownership to provide customized cost estimates and coverage suggestions.

Coverage

You can personalize the amount of car insurance coverage you buy for your situation. You'll need to consider if you want the lowest amount of coverage your situation allows. Will your coverage provide the protection that fits your needs? Or do you prefer a higher level of coverage to provide you with peace of mind in the event of an accident?

Vehicle Ownership

Is your vehicle financed or leased? This may impact the car insurance coverage you are required to have. The value of your vehicle may determine if you want to carry certain optional coverages as well. Our car insurance calculator takes these things into account when estimating your coverage needs.

Time Spent Driving

The amount of time you spend on the road matters when determining how much coverage you may want to carry. More time driving can increase your risk of being in an accident, so you may want to carry more coverage. Our car insurance calculator takes this into account when estimating your coverage.

Back to top

How are car insurance coverages estimated?

GEICO's Coverage Calculator evaluates several factors to generate personalized coverage suggestions. These may include details about your vehicle, information about your household and assets, and your preferences for protection levels. Based on your responses, the tool provides general recommendations to help you consider appropriate coverage limits and optional protections. The calculator is designed to offer educational guidance. Final coverage selections and pricing are determined when you request a car insurance quote.

What information do I need to shop for auto insurance?

Having the right information in hand can make it easier to get an accurate car insurance quote. You'll want to have:

Your driver's license number

Your vehicle's make and model

Your vehicle identification number (VIN)

The physical address where your vehicle will be stored

Get an auto insurance quote .

What car insurance discounts can I get?

While our car insurance calculator focuses on coverage recommendations, your final car insurance estimate may also reflect different kinds of discounts or premium reductions you may be eligible for. Savings can depend on vehicle safety features, driving habits, or bundling policies such as homeowners' and car insurance.

How are car insurance premiums calculated?

Car insurance premiums hinge on various factors like gender, location, driving record, coverage options, vehicle usage, and more. The make and model of your car can also impact rates. Learn more about determining car insurance rates .

How do I compare auto insurance quotes?

It's important that you make sure you're comparing car insurance quotes with the same information. This includes:

Driver information

Vehicle type and location

Coverages, limits and deductibles

What do car insurance coverages do for me?

Learn more about the different types of car insurance coverages . This information will help you decide how to best personalize your auto insurance policy.

Does my state have any specific requirements for car insurance?

Look up your home state to find out about state specific required auto insurance coverages and minimum coverage limits.

How much should car insurance usually cost?

The cost of car insurance varies based on factors such as your location, driving history, vehicle type, selected coverage limits, and available discounts. Because every driver’s situation is different, there is no single price that applies to everyone. Reviewing your coverage options and requesting a personalized car insurance quote is the best way to understand what your insurance may cost.
