# GEICO's Mobile App ~ Free Insurance App | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/web-and-mobile/mobile-apps/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/web-and-mobile/mobile-apps/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

GEICO's Mobile App

We Invite You to Download the GEICO App

This Free Mobile App Is Waiting

Click here to download:

You can also download now:

Download Now

We want to make insurance with GEICO as easy as possible.

On the road or in life, no one else is headed where you are. That's why the GEICO insurance mobile app is here and ready to help you get where you're going, wherever that might be. So, grab some snacks and get ready to roll. We'll be right there with you.

Explore the GEICO app and see why we provide the best mobile experience

Digital Insurance ID Cards

The days of rummaging through your wallet or glovebox for an insurance ID card are over. You can access your online insurance card directly from your mobile device. Here's what you can expect:

Access your ID cards 24/7, online or offline

View, email, or print your ID cards from the GEICO Mobile app or geico.com

Add your ID cards to your Apple Wallet (for Apple users)

Access ID Cards in the App

Roadside Assistance

No one likes being stranded in the middle of nowhere-or even in the middle of somewhere. GEICO Mobile is the fastest and easiest way to get help when you need it.

Tow and emergency roadside help available 24/7 (including holidays)

Request help in as little as 2 minutes

Get Roadside Help in the App

Easy Photo Estimate

Did a runaway shopping cart leave a dent in your car? Save some time with the Easy Photo Estimate feature on the GEICO Mobile app. With GEICO's photo inspection tool, you can:

Submit photos of your vehicle's fender bender

Get an estimate of your vehicle damage in about 20 minutes

Skip booking an appointment at an auto shop

Open Easy Photo Estimate in the App

Virtual Assistant

Ever wish you had a person in your pocket that could answer questions about your policy, billing, or more? Us too. So just ask the GEICO Virtual Assistant. Available 24/7, just like GEICO.

Vehicle Care

Does your vehicle have deep dark secrets it's not telling you? With GEICO Mobile's Vehicle Care powered by CARFAX ® you can shed some light on your cars service history, check for open recalls, create a maintenance schedule, and more.

See why we're #1.

"Have nothing but great things to say, easy to make changes to policy, easy to make a claim, easy to contact someone if I have questions through the app." GEICO Customer Review on Google Play (05/14/2022)
"It's a great way to see everything your Geico auto and home insurance offers and if you have a claim it has all the information you need! Great app!" GEICO Customer Review on the App Store (05/11/2022)

More ways to access your GEICO policy.

geico.com
When you're out and about, you can access everything you need on geico.com. Our website is mobile friendly and includes all of the features you love.

Get a quote for your car, motorcycle, and more

Log in to your policy

Report a claim

Compare the features of geico.com and the awesome GEICO Mobile app.

Want to shape the future of GEICO Mobile? Join Power Users today.

Got questions? We've got answers.

Do I need an account to use the GEICO Mobile app?

You do not need to set up a separate account to service your policy through GEICO Mobile; you can log in using the same user ID/password you use online. However, you do not need an account to get a quote, file a claim, or access extra features!

Will I stay permanently logged into the app?

You can select "Keep Me Logged In" which will save your User ID and password to your device making logging into your policy effortless.

How do I login with my fingerprint?

If you have a device with a fingerprint sensor enabled and have a fingerprint stored on your device, you will receive a prompt asking if you'd like to use your fingerprint on your next login.

How do I save my ID card for offline access?

Once you have logged into the app and viewed your ID cards, they will be automatically saved to your device. Next time you're logged out, you can easily access your ID cards from the login screen.

What about security/privacy in GEICO Mobile?

GEICO cares about your security and privacy. All of your personal information is encrypted for any communication with GEICO servers.

iPhone, iPad, iTunes, and App Store are trademarks of Apple Inc. Android and Google Play are trademarks of Google Inc.

CARFAX is a registered trademark of CARFAX, Inc.

The GEICO Mobile app and site received #1 rankings according to the Keynova Group Q1 and Q3 2021 Mobile Insurance Scorecards
