# Bundle Home & Auto Insurance | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/save/discounts/multi-policy-insurance-discount/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/save/discounts/multi-policy-insurance-discount/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

More savings from the brand you love, all in one place.

Already have a quote? Continue your previous quote.
Continue Previous Quote

Multi-Policy (Multi-line) Insurance Discount for Your Home and Auto Insurance

Bundling—or combining multiple insurance policies —applies to more than just car and property insurance ; it includes policies like renters, condo, motorcycle, boat, and more.

When you bundle your property insurance, car insurance, and other coverages through GEICO Insurance Agency, you can unlock substantial savings. Don't miss out on potential savings—get a quote for your bundled insurance today!

Home and Auto Insurance: GEICO Insurance Agency Offers More Than Just Savings

At GEICO, we take the hassle out of finding the best home insurance by doing the shopping for you. We compare quotes from multiple trusted providers to help you find the coverage you need at a great rate. Plus, enjoy savings with a Multi-Policy Insurance Discount on your auto policy when you bundle your home and auto insurance. Not a homeowner? You can also enjoy savings by bundling renters, condo, or motorcycle insurance with your auto policy from GEICO. Our goal is to make sure you're taken care of. With a 97% satisfaction rating from our personal auto customers*, we pride ourselves on providing truly exceptional service. We've been doing it for over 85 years.

Benefits of Bundling Home and Auto Insurance Policies:

Real savings you'll love

Great customer service

Manage your policies in one place

A trusted company to help guide you

Get a quote now and see how much money you could save on your auto, home, or renters insurance with our Multi-Policy Discount.

Types of Insurance That You Can Bundle with GEICO

With GEICO Insurance Agency, you can bundle more than just home and auto insurance to qualify for discounts and make managing your policies easier. Some common insurance bundles include:

Home and Auto Insurance Bundle

Bundle your auto and home insurance with GEICO Insurance Agency to save time and money. Enjoy dependable coverage for both your car and home while unlocking exclusive discounts tailored to your needs.
Bundle Home + Auto Quote
Auto and Renters Insurance Bundle

Bundle your auto and renters insurance with GEICO Insurance Agency to simplify your coverage and maximize your savings. Enjoy affordable protection for both your vehicle and your belongings—plus unlock exclusive discounts designed to fit your lifestyle.
Bundle Renters + Auto Quote
Policy Bundle

Ensure coverage for all your vehicles - cars, motorcycles, boats, or RVs - with policies from GEICO to unlock great savings.

Why Choose GEICO Insurance Agency for Bundled Home and Auto Insurance

GEICO Insurance Agency does more than offer discounts; we provide exceptional insurance services. When you choose GEICO Insurance Agency, we do the shopping for you to find the best property coverage to suit your needs. We even work with your lender to set up payments for your homeowners insurance and show proof of insurance, so you have one less thing to worry about.

Customer Satisfaction

With over 85 years of experience in the insurance industry and a 97% customer satisfaction rating*, you can rest assured we'll protect what matters most.

24/7/365 Support

No matter the time or day, you can access your bundled home and auto policies through the GEICO Mobile App . Our mobile app enables you to:

Access your digital insurance ID cards

Review your policy and make changes

Request roadside service

File and manage claims

Make payments

And more!

In addition, our claim specialists are available 24/7 to assist you with any claim issues or questions you may have.

Save on Bundled Insurance with a Quick GEICO Quote

Get a quote today to see how bundling your auto with home or renters policies can help you save on insurance.

Bundling Home and Auto Insurance FAQs

What is an insurance bundle?

An insurance bundle combines multiple insurance policies, such as auto, home, or renters insurance, under one provider and often results in significant discounts.

What are the best times to bundle my policies?

The best times to bundle insurance are when purchasing a new policy, during renewal, or after significant life changes, like buying a home or car.

Can I manage my bundled car and home insurance policies in one account?

Yes, you can manage your bundled car and home insurance policies in one account in the GEICO Mobile app .

Can I still choose different coverages for each policy in the bundle?

Yes, each policy within a bundle can be customized to meet your needs.

Am I able to add more policies to my existing bundle later?

Yes, you can add more policies, such as renters or motorcycle insurance, to your existing bundle later.

What happens to my bundle if I need to claim on one of the policies?

Filing a claim on one policy in a bundle typically does not affect the other policies or the overall discount. However, this can vary by provider, so be sure to discuss specifics with them.

How do I bundle my car and home insurance with GEICO Insurance Agency?

To bundle your car and home insurance with GEICO Insurance Agency, you could shop on the GEICO mobile app, visit our website to get a quote, or contact our customer service by phone or live chat.

Disclaimer:

Customer Satisfaction based on a September 2025 survey of GEICO customers using an independent platform.

Some discounts, coverages, payment plans, and features are not available in all states or all GEICO companies. Discount amount varies in some states. Coverage is individual. In New York a premium reduction may be available.

Homeowners, renters, condo, co-op, mobile home coverages are written through non-affiliated insurance companies and are secured through the GEICO Insurance Agency, LLC .

Please note:

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages.

Get Bundle Quote Start Bundle Quote
