# Umbrella Insurance Quotes & Policy Information | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/umbrella-insurance/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/umbrella-insurance/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Umbrella Insurance Quotes & Policy Information | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Umbrella Insurance Quotes & Policy Information 

Umbrella Insurance 

Get a Free Umbrella Insurance Quote 

To start your Umbrella insurance quote, please log in with your GEICO Auto policy credentials or call us at (866) 272-5192 . 
Log In & Start Quote 
If you do not have a GEICO Auto policy or quote yet*, please call 1-800-841-2964 . 

Umbrella Policy Login 

Login with your auto policy to manage your account online. 

Log In 

Forgot your password ? 

OR 

Manage Your Umbrella Policy 

Remember to make sure your umbrella policy is up to date and reflects your current financial situation. 

Log in or call us at (866) 272-5192 to make changes to your policy. 

Monday – Saturday: 8:00 AM – 9:00 PM (ET) 

Need an umbrella insurance quote? 

Existing umbrella policyholder? 

What is an umbrella insurance policy? 

Umbrella insurance, sometimes referred to as personal umbrella policy, is a supplemental liability policy that can help protect your assets when there is an unexpected event that requires more coverage than you have with your vehicle or property policies. An umbrella policy provides an additional layer of coverage on top of what you already have. 

To be eligible for an umbrella policy, insurance companies may require you to have and maintain certain minimum liability limits on your auto and homeowners policies. 

What is typically covered by umbrella insurance? 

Injuries you cause to others 

Damage you cause to other people's property 

Injuries or damage caused by your renters 

Certain lawsuits, like slander and defamation 

Why buy umbrella insurance? 

Without an umbrella policy, your home and savings could be at risk if you're involved in a major accident or lawsuit. 

Liability claims are often expensive and paying out-of-pocket for one could take years. 

Lawsuits can happen to anyone. You can be sued regardless of your financial situation or whether you believe you are at fault. 

How is an umbrella insurance policy different from raising policy limits? 

An umbrella policy can add $1 million** in coverage to several policies or where raising limits is not an option—and may cost less than raising limits individually. 

May cover situations that your other policies may not, such as slander, or libel lawsuits. 

Can cover the cost of your legal defense in case of a liability lawsuit. 

Do you need umbrella insurance? 

Umbrella insurance can give you $1 million in coverage** on top of your auto or homeowners policy limits . If you injure someone or damage their property, you might not have enough coverage with your existing policies. An umbrella policy could save you from paying out of your own pocket. 

Here are some circumstances you may want to consider when deciding whether umbrella insurance is right for you. *** 

Explore the interactive infographic by clicking or tapping on the glowing bubbles below. 

Check all the boxes that apply to you and your family. 

You travel to different countries 
You're near retirement and/or have a large nest egg 
You invite guests to your home 
You have a family pet 
You have young drivers on your auto policy 

You forget to turn off your garden hose. The mailman slips on your wet driveway, injures his back, and sues you for $450,000. 

You forget to turn off your garden hose. The mailman slips on your wet driveway, injures his back, and sues you for $450,000. 

While backing out of a parking space in a hurry, you hit a pedestrian. You're responsible for over $1 million in medical bills. 

You rear-end another car. The other driver claims long-term neck damage and sues you for $600,000—threatening your savings. 

In a crowded coffee shop, you accidentally spill your hot drink on a child. Treatment for his burns costs almost $700,000. 

A guest in your home trips and falls. She injures her neck and arms and can't work for a month. Treatment and lost wages add up to $550,000. 

You are still learning a new language and unintentionally insult a restaurant's chef. The comment goes viral, hurting the business. 

You hire a contractor to fix your front deck. He needs a ladder and you let him borrow yours, but the leg of the ladder slips and he falls. 

Your young driver glances down at their phone, swerves, and crashes into another car. Injuries to the other driver cost $800,000. 

Your dog bites your new neighbor who is bringing over cookies. The medical bill for going to the ER to fix her leg costs $400,000. 

*** Exclusions may apply. 

Who is covered by your umbrella insurance policy? 

You and your spouse if a resident of your household 

Relatives residing in your household 

Household residents under age 21 in the care and custody of you or your spouse 

What is typically not covered by a personal umbrella insurance policy? 

Your injuries or damage to your personal property 

A criminal or intentional action causing damage to someone else 

Liability you assume under a contract 

Why Choose GEICO for Umbrella Insurance? 

When life's unexpected events threaten your financial stability, an umbrella insurance policy can be your safety net. With GEICO, securing that extra layer of protection is easy. Here are some reasons why customers choose GEICO: 

Seamless Bundling (And Savings!): Already a GEICO customer? Bundling your umbrella insurance with existing auto, home, or renters policies can simplify your coverage and potentially save you money. 

Reliable Claim Service: Our team of insurance claim specialists are available 24/7 to answer questions and provide support when you need it most. 

Customizable Coverage: We offer fully customizable umbrella insurance policies to ensure you get coverage that fits your unique circumstances. 

Trusted Name in Insurance: With decades of experience and millions of satisfied customers, GEICO has earned a reputation as a dependable insurance provider. Choosing GEICO means partnering with a company you can trust. 

Need an umbrella insurance quote? 

You can get an umbrella insurance quote by reaching a sales agent at (866) 272-5192 . 

Mon - Sun 

8:00 AM - 10:00 PM (ET) 

Umbrella Insurance Quotes: Get the answers you're looking for. 

Do you have a list of frequently asked questions about umbrella policies? 

Yes! You can find the frequently asked questions about umbrella insurance on our umbrella FAQ page . 

Should I consider an umbrella policy? 

In most cases, you'll want to consider getting an umbrella insurance policy to increase your protection in the case of an accident or lawsuit. 

What are the underlying insurance requirements for an umbrella policy? 

There are certain required automobile and property policies and limits that you'll need to qualify for an umbrella insurance policy. Please visit our umbrella insurance requirements page to learn more. 

Where can I learn more about umbrella insurance? 

We have a variety of resources dedicated to umbrella insurance. If you're looking for more information about GEICO's umbrella insurance, click here . If you're looking for an informative article covering all the umbrella insurance basics, click here . 

How much umbrella policy coverage do I need? 

The amount of umbrella insurance you need depends on personal factors like your net worth, income, and potential risks. A common rule of thumb is to purchase enough coverage to protect your total assets, including savings, property, and investments, as well as future income if you're at risk of being sued. Speak with one of GEICO's insurance specialists or get a free quote to determine how much umbrella coverage you need. 

How can I compare umbrella insurance quotes? 

To compare umbrella insurance quotes, evaluate the coverage limits and exclusions offered by different providers to ensure they meet your needs. Pay attention to the premiums, deductibles, and any discounts available, especially if bundling with other policies. Consider the reputation and customer service quality of each insurer to ensure reliable support in the event of a claim. Using online tools or working with an insurance specialist can make the comparison process easier. 

How much does an umbrella policy cost? 

Umbrella insurance is typically affordable for policyholders. However, the exact cost of a policy depends on factors like your risk profile, the number of properties or vehicles, and any additional coverage needs. Get a free umbrella insurance quote from GEICO to determine the cost of your policy. 

Please note: 

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. Coverage is subject to policy terms, conditions, limitations, exclusions, underwriting review, and approval, and may not be available for all risks. Rates and discounts vary, are determined by many factors, and are subject to change. For complete details, including exclusions and limitations, please refer to the policy you will receive when you purchase the coverage. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages. Umbrella policies sold by GEICO may be underwritten by either GEICO General Insurance Company, Government Employees Insurance Company, or RLI Insurance Company ( https://www.rlicorp.com ), an unaffiliated partner. Umbrella insurance claims for policies underwritten by RLI Insurance Company are processed by RLI Insurance Company. 

*You need a GEICO Auto Policy to qualify for GEICO Umbrella insurance in all states except NH and NY. 

**Other policy limits are also available. 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
