# What Does Collision Insurance Cover? | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/collision-coverage/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/collision-coverage/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

What Does Collision Insurance Cover? | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Browse the GEICO Insurance Information Center > aboutinsurance > Car Insurance Coverage: Auto Coverage Types & More > What Does Collision Insurance Cover? 

What Does Collision Insurance Cover? 

What is collision coverage? 

Collision coverage helps pay for the cost of repairs to your vehicle if it's hit by another vehicle. It may also help with the cost of repairs if you hit another vehicle or object. That means you can use it whether you're at fault or not. Unlike some coverages, you don't select a limit for collision. The most it will pay is based on the actual cash value of your vehicle. You will be responsible for paying your selected car insurance deductible . 

Let's find the right collision coverage for you. 

What kind of accidents does collision cover? 

Collision helps cover damages to your vehicle if it: 

Hits another vehicle 

Is hit by another vehicle 

Hits an object like a fence or sign 

You can file a collision claim regardless of who is at fault. 

What damage is not covered by collision coverage? 

Collision only provides coverage for damages to your vehicle. That means it wouldn't pay for damage to another person's vehicle or property. Collision also doesn't cover all damage to your vehicle. Examples of damages not covered are: 

Theft 

Vandalism 

Floods 

Fire 

Hitting an animal 

If you'd like to know more about coverage for these kinds of damages, check out the comprehensive coverage page . 

You may also want to consider adding rental reimbursement coverage . This will help if you need transportation while your car is being repaired. 

Why should you buy collision coverage? 

Collision coverage: 

Can be used no matter who's at fault in the collision 

Helps pay for the cost of repairs so you're not stuck paying the entire bill on your own 

May allow you to start repairs for your collision damages while the claim is being investigated 

If your vehicle is financed or leased, your lienholder may require you to have collision and comprehensive coverage. This helps to protect their interest in the vehicle. 

What is a collision insurance deductible? 

A collision deductible is the amount you've agreed to pay before the insurance company starts paying for damages. You can think of it as how much of the financial risk you're willing to take on if you're in an accident. Typically, the more risk you're willing to take (higher deductible), the lower your insurance cost would be. The less risk (lower deductible), the higher your insurance cost would be. 

Let's say you're involved in an accident that causes $1,000 in damage to your vehicle and you have a $250 collision deductible. You'll pay the first $250 in damage, normally directly to the body shop, and then your insurance will pay the remaining $750. 

Who needs collision coverage? 

Vehicle owners who drive cars with values greater than their car insurance premiums should consider purchasing collision coverage. This includes people who: 

Lease or finance their vehicles 

Own newer vehicles 

Own older vehicles that have maintained their value 

You may not need collision coverage if you own an older vehicle because you might end up paying more in premiums than your car is actually worth. However, choosing not to purchase collision coverage leaves you financially responsible for repairing or replacing your vehicle in the event of a collision. 

How do I choose my collision deductible amount? 

When selecting a collision insurance deductible, it's crucial to strike a balance between your current financial capabilities and potential out-of-pocket expenses in the event of an accident. A higher deductible typically translates to lower premiums, but it means you will be responsible for paying more money out-of-pocket to repair or replace your vehicle. Conversely, a lower deductible means higher premiums but reduces the amount you have to pay after a collision. You should also consider the value of your car; if you have an older vehicle and choose a lower deductible in exchange for a higher premium, you could pay more in premiums than your vehicle is worth. 

How does collision coverage work? 

To better understand how collision coverage works, let's take a look at real-life scenarios in which it can be used. 

Single-Car Accidents : Let's say you accidentally collide with an object like a tree or a lamppost. Collision coverage will cover the damages to your vehicle, ensuring you're not left shouldering the repair expenses alone. 

At-Fault Accidents : Let's say you accidentally rear-end the car in front of you while in stop in go traffic. Collision coverage will cover the damages to your vehicle, less your deductible, even though you are considered at fault for the accident. 

Not-at-Fault Accidents : Imagine your parked vehicle was struck by another driver in a parking lot. Even though they are at fault for this accident, you may choose to utilize your collision coverage for repairs. This option may be particularly useful if your car is not drivable and the other insurance provider is still investigating the claim, or if the at fault driver did not carry the appropriate liability coverage. 

Hit-and-Runs : In the event of a hit-and-run accident where the responsible party flees the scene, collision coverage can still be utilized to cover the damages to your vehicle. 

Rollovers or Flipping : In the event of a rollover accident where your vehicle overturns, collision coverage will cover the damages sustained. 

Please note: 

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages. 

Contact Us 

We're here for you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The quickest way to contact us is through our app or online. You can also chat for immediate help. 

Check Out a New Quote 

ATV Auto Bicycle Boat / PWC Business Owners Collector Auto Commercial Auto Condo / Co-op Earthquake Event Flood General Liability Home Identity Protection Jewelry Landlord Life Medical Malpractice Mexico Auto Mobile Home Motorcycle Overseas Pet Mobile Device Professional Liability Renters RV Travel Umbrella Workers' Compensation 
Look at Quote → 

You are about to leave geico.com 

Important Information: If you currently have an active flood insurance policy, please call us for the most accurate quote at (800) 566-1575 . 

If you don't currently have an active flood policy, click "Continue" to get a quote online. 

GEICO Insurance Agency, Inc. has partnered with to provide insurance products. When you click "Continue" you will be taken to their website, which is not owned or operated by GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you directly provide is subject to the privacy posted on their website. 

Continue Continue 

Call (888) 395-1200 or log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Learn More 

Car Insurance Coverages 

Car Insurance Discounts 

Cheap Car Insurance 

Comparing Car Insurance 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
