# What is comprehensive car insurance and what does it cover? | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/comp-coverage/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/comp-coverage/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

What is comprehensive car insurance and what does it cover? | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Browse the GEICO Insurance Information Center > aboutinsurance > Car Insurance Coverage: Auto Coverage Types & More > What is comprehensive car insurance and what does it cover? 

What is comprehensive car insurance and what does it cover? 

What is comprehensive car insurance coverage? 

Comprehensive coverage helps cover the cost of damages to your vehicle when you're involved in an incident that's not caused by a collision with another vehicle. Comprehensive car insurance can cover losses like theft, vandalism, hail, flooding, or hitting an animal. For example, if you are driving and hit a deer, the damage could be covered under comprehensive coverage. However, if your vehicle were to hit another vehicle or object, this would fall under collision coverage. 

Comprehensive car insurance is an optional coverage you can carry to help protect your vehicle. Unlike some coverages, you don't select a limit for comprehensive vehicle insurance. The maximum payout is based on the actual cash value of your vehicle. You will be responsible for paying your selected car insurance deductible . 

Let's work together to find the right coverage for you. 

What does comprehensive car insurance cover? 

Comprehensive coverage covers damages to your vehicle in certain situations. It's sometimes referred to as "other than collision" coverage. All that means is that it may cover damages to your vehicle that collision coverage doesn't. This may include, but is not limited to, things like: 

Theft 

Glass breakage not resulting from a collision 

Fire 

Floods and hail 

Hitting an animal 

What damage is not covered by comprehensive coverage? 

Comprehensive coverage does not cover damages caused by hitting another vehicle or object. These incidents are covered under collision coverage . Normal wear and tear on your vehicle is also not covered by comprehensive car insurance. Normal wear and tear includes items that normally need to be replaced over time from usage such as: 

Belts and hoses 

Brakes 

Tires 

Windshield wipers 

Comprehensive Coverage vs. Collision Coverage 

Comprehensive coverage and collision coverage can be used to help repair the damages caused to your vehicle in an accident. Both coverages have a deductible you are responsible for paying before the coverage starts covering the damage. The coverages differ in the situations in which they apply. 

Comprehensive coverage applies when: 

Your car hits a deer 

Someone steals your vehicle 

Your car is damaged in a hailstorm 

Collision coverage applies when: 

You swerve to miss a dog and hit a fence 

Another vehicle hits your vehicle 

You have a single car accident with damage to the vehicle 

Why should you buy comprehensive coverage? 

Comprehensive coverage: 

Can be used no matter who's at fault 

Helps pay for repairs, over your deductible, so you're not stuck paying the entire bill on your own 

Not required by law in any state, but is usually required by lenders if you are leasing or financing your vehicle 

Worthwhile if your vehicle has a higher cash value or if you cannot afford to repair or replace it out of pocket 

What is a comprehensive deductible? 

A comprehensive deductible is the amount you've agreed to pay before the insurance company starts paying for damages. You can think of it as how much of the financial risk you're willing to take on if you're in an accident. Typically, the more risk you're willing to take (higher deductible), the lower your insurance cost would be. The less risk (lower deductible), the higher your insurance costs would be. 

Let's say there's a bad hailstorm in your area and your vehicle has $1,000 in damage. You have a $100 deductible on your comprehensive coverage. You'll pay the first $100, and then your insurance company will pay the remaining $900 of the vehicle repair bill. If you have an older vehicle, you may want to consider whether you need comprehensive coverage as it is normally limited to the actual cash value of your car. 

Comprehensive car insurance FAQs 

When is comprehensive insurance worth it? 

Comprehensive coverage is worth the investment if you want financial protection against non-collision damages like theft, vandalism, or natural disasters. It can be especially vital if your car is new, valuable, frequently parked in high-risk areas, or if you live in a region prone to extreme weather. 

Is comprehensive insurance the same as full coverage? 

No, comprehensive insurance is not the same as full coverage, as it specifically covers non-collision damages. While "full coverage" is not an actual insurance term, it is typically referring to a policy that includes comprehensive, collision, and liability insurance. 

Is it better to have comprehensive or collision coverage? 

The selection of coverages you carry should depend on your specific needs. If your vehicle is valuable or you want protection after a loss, carrying both collision and comprehensive coverage is ideal. However, if your vehicle is older, you may decide that only carrying one or neither of the coverages are best for your circumstances. 

Should I get comprehensive coverage or liability coverage? 

Comprehensive coverage is great for protection against theft, vandalism, and natural disasters, especially for newer or high-value vehicles. Liability insurance only covers damages to others, making it suitable for older, lower-value cars. It's important to understand that these coverages are separate from each other. You can purchase just liability coverage or both liability and comprehensive coverages depending on your situation and desired level of protection. 

Please note: 

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages. 

Contact Us 

We're here for you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The quickest way to contact us is through our app or online. You can also chat for immediate help. 

Check Out a New Quote 

ATV Auto Bicycle Boat / PWC Business Owners Collector Auto Commercial Auto Condo / Co-op Earthquake Event Flood General Liability Home Identity Protection Jewelry Landlord Life Medical Malpractice Mexico Auto Mobile Home Motorcycle Overseas Pet Mobile Device Professional Liability Renters RV Travel Umbrella Workers' Compensation 
Look at Quote → 

You are about to leave geico.com 

Important Information: If you currently have an active flood insurance policy, please call us for the most accurate quote at (800) 566-1575 . 

If you don't currently have an active flood policy, click "Continue" to get a quote online. 

GEICO Insurance Agency, Inc. has partnered with to provide insurance products. When you click "Continue" you will be taken to their website, which is not owned or operated by GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you directly provide is subject to the privacy posted on their website. 

Continue Continue 

Call (888) 395-1200 or log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Learn More 

Car Insurance Coverages 

Car Insurance Discounts 

Cheap Car Insurance 

Comparing Car Insurance 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
