# Roadside Assistance - Get Emergency Roadside Service  | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/emergency-road-service/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/emergency-road-service/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Roadside Assistance - Get Emergency Roadside Service | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Car Insurance: Affordable Auto Insurance > Roadside Assistance - Get Emergency Roadside Service 

Roadside Assistance - Get Emergency Roadside Service 

Emergency Roadside Service 

Review Coverage For As Low As $14/Year 

Get 24/7 Emergency Roadside Assistance For As Little As $14 A Year Per Car 

Forgot your password? Sign up for online access 

Get 24/7 Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO is here to help you 24/7. Request emergency roadside service online or through GEICO Mobile. It's faster and easier than calling. 

Get Help Now → 

What does GEICO Emergency Roadside Service cover? 

When your car lets you down, we'll be here to help get your vehicle back up and running. GEICO Emergency Roadside Service ("ERS") provides coverage for the following roadside emergencies: 

Towing to the nearest repair facility where the repairs can be made 

Battery jump starts 

Tire changes when you have a functioning spare 

Lockout services (up to $100) if you lock your keys in your vehicle 

Winching your vehicle if it is stuck on or immediately next to a publicly maintained roadway 

Fuel delivery to help get you to a gas station or your destination 

You don't have to pay out of pocket for these individual services. We can help! Use the GEICO Mobile app, request help online, or give us a call 24/7 so we can get help to you as quickly as possible. 

What Types of Vehicles We Cover With ERS: 

GEICO's ERS covers cars, trucks, and other standard vehicles. Coverage for the following types of vehicles can be purchased separately: 

Motorcycles 

Boats 

RVs 

Get Quick & Convenient Roadside Assistance With the GEICO Mobile App 

Whether you have a flat tire or just need a jump start, all our roadside assistance services can be requested with just a few taps in the GEICO Mobile app . 
Why use the GEICO Mobile app to get roadside assistance? 
Request help in as little as 2 minutes 

Available 24/7 for a quick response 

GPS locator can help us find you 

Service tracker allows you to see when help is on the way 

You never know when you'll need roadside help. Be prepared. Download the app now . The best way to insurance, claims or shine. 

Or, text ROADSIDE to 43426 (GEICO) to receive a link to download the app. † 
How To Request Emergency Roadside Service On The GEICO Mobile App 

This video requires targeting cookies to be enabled. 
Manage Cookie Preferences 

Get Emergency Roadside Service for as little as $14 a year per car. 

GEICO Emergency Roadside Service may cover more roadside emergencies than competitors do–and for a lower price. But you don't have to take our word for it. Here's what some happy customers have to say about ERS. 

"Every time I've needed roadside assistance you all have been on time or early with no problems and the nicest service people." 
— iOS App Store Review, June 2020 

"5 stars! Super easy app to use and the service provider came in less time than expected for roadside assistance! He was super nice to boot. 100% satisfied!" 
— Google Play Review, September 2020 

Plus, you can manage your GEICO ERS and auto policies from the same place. One bill, one app, one company. How's that for convenient? 

Log in to your GEICO Auto Policy or call (800) 42-GEICO (4-3426) to get a quote. Only GEICO auto insurance policyholders are eligible for ERS. 

Still have questions about Emergency Roadside Service? 

How far will you tow a vehicle? 

We'll safely tow your disabled vehicle to your destination of choice. Please refer to your policy contract for mileage limitations and additional details. 

I paid for my recent tow. Can I be reimbursed? 

It's easy to submit a claim for reimbursement . Submit the original copy of the road service bill and we'll reimburse you based on your coverage limits. In some cases, you can even receive your reimbursement by electronic funds transfer. 

How long will it take to get help? 

Typically, our contracted providers can reach the service location within 60 minutes. 

My car is brand new. Why should I add ERS to my policy? 

It's true that newer cars tend to break down less often than older ones, but even new car owners may occasionally need emergency assistance for non-mechanical issues, such as jump starts or tire changes. 

Is this service directly through GEICO? 

GEICO works with service providers nationwide to provide emergency roadside assistance to our policyholders. 

How much will GEICO roadside assistance service calls cost? 

GEICO Emergency Roadside Service covers a variety of issues, though you could be billed for extra costs like tires or gas. 

If you don't have our Emergency Roadside Service coverage yet, you can still give us a call! We negotiate with local service providers and could assist in finding you roadside help. 

Important Message from your Cellular Provider 

This is not a Cellular Provider application. If you use this application, it may require your Cellular Provider to disclose your customer information, including Mobile Phone Location Information, to the application provider or some other third party. By providing your consent, you authorize your Cellular Provider to disclose your information to third parties to enable this application. Check the application's terms of use and the policies for more information about how the application will collect, access, use or disclose your information. Terms of use and other policies usually are available on the application provider's website. If you aren't comfortable with the application's policies, don't use it. You acknowledge and agree that (1) your relationship with the application provider is separate from your relationship with your Cellular Provider; (2) your Cellular Provider is not responsible for this application; and (3) you will hold harmless your Cellular Provider and its subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from any judgments, claims, actions, losses, liabilities or expenses arising from or attributable to this application or the acts or omissions of the application provider. 

Please Note: 

These are general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. They are not intended to modify any provisions in any contract of insurance. Always read the insurance contract for specific explanations of coverages and exclusions. In North Carolina, Emergency Roadside Service is called Towing and Labor Coverage. Services offered may vary by state. 

† GEICO does not charge for this service. However, message and data rates may apply from your mobile carrier. 

Location Services 

When you are unsure of your exact location, you may provide us with oral approval to attempt to locate you via information provided by your mobile phone provider ("Location Data"). You may opt-out of this service by declining to provide your oral approval. We will use the Location Data for the sole purpose of dispatching roadside services. We may revise the Location Data if, after conversation with you, we determined it to be inaccurate. We will only share the Location Data with the roadside assistance provider(s). The Location Data is stored temporarily (typically for one week) in a secured database accessible only by those of our employees and agents with a reasonable need to know such information in order to provide roadside services. We will maintain a record of the location to which we dispatched roadside assistance, but such record shall not reference the Location Data as the source of such information. 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
