# Mechanical Breakdown Insurance: Coverage for Car Repairs | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/mechanical-breakdown-insurance/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/mechanical-breakdown-insurance/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Mechanical Breakdown Insurance: Coverage for Car Repairs | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Car Insurance: Affordable Auto Insurance > Mechanical Breakdown Insurance: Coverage for Car Repairs 

Mechanical Breakdown Insurance: Coverage for Car Repairs 

Protect Your Car With Mechanical Breakdown Insurance (MBI) 

You deserve effective coverage at an affordable rate. MBI offers a broader coverage solution
 than a
 manufacturer's extended warranty. Log in to your account now to add! 

Forgot your password? Sign up for online access 

Call (800) 443-7411 
to start your
 Mechanical Breakdown Insurance claim. 

What is Mechanical Breakdown Insurance? 

Mechanical breakdown or car repair insurance is a way of adding an extra layer of protection to your auto insurance policy. Similar to a car warranty, this type of insurance covers costs from repairs if your vehicle breaks down, needs replacement parts, or suffers other types of mechanical problems. Having a mechanical breakdown insurance policy could mean you pay less out-of-pocket for unexpected car repairs. 

Mechanical Breakdown Insurance from GEICO also means you get the great service and insurance specialist that you already know and trust, on top of affordable coverage. These extra benefits could make mechanical breakdown insurance an extension of your car warranty. 

How does Mechanical Breakdown Insurance work? 

Mechanical breakdown or car repair insurance is available for new or leased cars that meet specific criteria: 
Age and Mileage: The vehicle must be less than 15 months old and have fewer than 15,000 miles. 

Ownership: You must be the first owner of the vehicle. 

Once you've purchased MBI, you can renew it for up to seven years or 100,000 miles (whichever comes first). After a $250 deductible on a covered loss, car repairs to most original mechanical parts of the car (except for maintenance and wear and tear*) are covered. Please note that MBI only covers repairs that are not covered by the manufacturer's warrenty. Interested? Call us at (800) 861-8380 to learn more. 

What does mechanical breakdown insurance cover? 

Mechanical breakdown insurance offers coverage for breakdown-related auto repairs when your manufacturer's warranty expires or fails to cover mechanical failures. After paying your deductible, the mechanical breakdown insurance will directly cover the remaining cost of your covered repairs with your service provider. This insurance is available for various vehicles, including cars, trucks, and SUVs. 

What is not covered under mechanical breakdown insurance? 

Mechanical breakdown insurance generally doesn’t provide coverage for the following: 
Routine maintenance expenses, such as oil changes, tire rotations, or brake pad replacements. 

Wear and tear on parts, including belts, hoses, and brakes. 

Towing or damage from accidents, collisions, or environmental factors. 

You can add Emergency Roadside Service to your GEICO policy for additional peace of mind. 

Is Mechanical Breakdown Insurance Worth It? 

Mechanical Breakdown Insurance (MBI) can be a smart investment—especially if you’re looking for added peace of mind beyond your standard auto insurance policy. While traditional car insurance helps cover damage from accidents, theft, and weather-related events, it won’t pay for repairs due to mechanical failure. That’s where MBI comes in. 

If your vehicle is newer and in good condition, MBI can help protect you from unexpected repair costs on major systems like your engine, transmission, air conditioning, and more. Repairs for these parts can be costly, and having coverage means you could avoid paying entirely out of pocket if something breaks down after your manufacturer’s warranty expires. 

MBI is generally more affordable than extended warranties offered by dealerships and offers broader coverage. Plus, it comes with the flexibility of canceling at any time and the confidence of working with GEICO’s trusted claims process. 

Mechanical Breakdown Insurance VS. Extended Warranty: It's No Contest 

Why not just get an extended warranty, you wonder? You could—if you want to pay more for less protection. GEICO's Mechanical Breakdown Insurance (MBI) provides better coverage, then the typical dealer extended warrenty, at an affordable price. GEICO's MBI coverage: 
Includes most parts and systems, not just the reduced list of items covered by most dealer warranties. 

Saves you money, charging only a small premium per each policy period, instead of a large lump-sum payment up front. 

Lets you get your car repaired wherever you like. 

Mechanical breakdown insurance often covers more than a vehicle’s extended warranty. An extended warranty typically only covers repairs that occur when there are defective materials or improper manufacturing, while this coverage includes mechanical issues more broadly. Additionally – extended warranties only last for so long. With GEICO’s Mechanical Breakdown Insurance, you can maintain coverage for 7 years or 100K miles.  Extended warranties also have a high up-front cost, while MBI allows for you to pay as you go. 

Get Your Mechanical Breakdown Insurance Quote 

Ready to protect your vehicle from costly, unexpected repairs? We're here to help. Contact us for a personalized MBI quote through our app or online. You can also chat with a GEICO specialist for immediate help and learn how MBI can provide the peace of mind you deserve. 

Frequently Asked Questions About Mechanical Breakdown Insurance 

Is it difficult to submit an MBI claim? 

No. Just call toll free at (800) 443-7411 during the following hours for assistance with the MBI claims department. 

Phone Hours 
Monday – Friday 7:30 am – 9:00 pm (ET) Saturday – Sunday Closed 
IMPORTANT NOTE: In most states, for coverage to be applicable, you must obtain authorization prior to any repair work being done. See policy for details. 

Can I take my car to a repair shop of my choice? 

Yes, you may use the licensed repair shop of your choice, unless the repair is covered by a recall, voluntary repair program or the manufacturer's warranty. In those cases, you would need to take your vehicle back to a dealer who services the specific make and model. 

Dealer extended service contracts usually encourage you to have repairs made at the dealership where the vehicle was purchased. This could force you to return to a repair shop you don't care to use. GEICO MBI allows you to use any licensed repair shop. This could be especially important if you travel or move—MBI travels with you! 

What happens if I break down while traveling? 

If you ever have a breakdown, accident, or need assistance in any of the 50 states or the District of Columbia and you have emergency roadside assistance with GEICO, you're covered. We are only a phone call or few clicks in the GEICO mobile app away, 24 hours a day. 

How do I pay for MBI? 

You pay for MBI as a coverage on your auto policy. There are no separate payments to make. We offer you the choice of several plans for paying your auto insurance premium. You may pay in full or select an installment plan—whatever fits your budget. 

Dealers usually add the cost of their extended service contracts to the amount you pay for your new car up front, or they add it into the amount you finance. 

How can I learn more about GEICO's MBI coverage? 

Call us at (800) 861-8380. Our insurance representatives are ready to answer your questions and to give you a quote. 

Does Mechanical Breakdown Insurance cover parts and labor? 

Yes, parts and labor for covered losses are included in mechanical breakdown insurance. Non-covered repairs can be done at the same time, but you'll be responsible for paying those costs out of pocket. 

How does the deductible work when I need my vehicle repaired? 

The deductible is the amount you're responsible for paying before your insurance coverage kicks in. For example, if your deductible is $250 and the repair cost for your vehicle is $2000, you pay $250, and the insurance covers the remaining $1750. 

What if I want to get a new part instead of repairing the old one? 

If the repair shop can fix the part at a lower cost but you opt for a new one, your insurance will cover the cost of the new part up to the estimated repair cost of the old one. However, you'll be responsible for paying any expenses that exceed the repair estimate. 

Is there a required vehicle inspection before my plan activates? 

No inspection is required for your mechanical breakdown insurance to go into effect. It's important to keep in mind, however, that preexisting issues are not eligible for coverage. 

Learn More 

Mechanical Breakdown Claims 

GEICO's Financial Strength 

Learn About Car Insurance 

Extra Protection 

Vehicle Safety/Recall Information 

Car Buying & Financing Resources 

Insurance Terms 

*MBI Exclusions 

Exclusions to this policy include regular maintenance services such as tune-ups, suspension alignment, wheel balancing, filters, lubrication, coolant and fluids, spark plugs, brake pads and linings, brake shoes, and tires. Also, breakdown repairs made necessary by intentional damage, corrosion, misuse, or improper maintenance are not covered. Mechanical Breakdown Insurance coverage is in excess of coverage provided by your manufacturer's warranty. Read the policy amendment for the complete terms and conditions of this coverage. 

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions, or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages. 

Get Mechanical Breakdown Insurance Start Quote 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
