# Compare Car Insurance Quotes & Save | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/comparison/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/auto-insurance/comparison/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Compare Car Insurance Quotes & Save | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Car Insurance: Affordable Auto Insurance > Compare Car Insurance Quotes & Save 

Compare Car Insurance Quotes 

Compare Insurance Rates to Find the Best Coverage for Your Car 

Are you looking for affordable car insurance? If you're buying a new car or considering a new insurance policy, starting with a free car insurance quote from GEICO is a great idea. With a variety of savings opportunities and excellent customer service, GEICO can help protect you from the unexpected. However, if you prefer to compare different auto insurance providers, we're here to assist you in understanding your options so you can make the best choice for your insurance needs. 

How to Compare Car Insurance Quotes 

Comparing car insurance can be a straightforward process once you understand what parts of a quote you need to compare. Follow this guide to verify that each insurance provider is offering the same level of protection before you make your final choice. 

1. Compare Quotes with the Same Coverage Options 

When you compare car insurance rates, make sure you select the same set of coverages for each quote. It's easy to overlook that a lower priced quote might be missing a coverage you want, so be extra mindful before selecting a policy. Coverage requirements also vary by state and some coverages are optional. See our state car insurance guides for state-specific information. 

Here's an overview to help compare car insurance coverages: 

Comprehensive coverage : may pay for losses resulting from incidents other than collision, such as theft, vandalism, or weather events 

Collision coverage : may pay for damage to your car when your car hits, or is hit by another vehicle or object 

Uninsured motorist coverage : may help compensate you for your injuries or damages when caused by a person driving without insurance 

Underinsured motorist coverage : may protect you from drivers who cause an accident and may not have enough insurance to pay for your injuries or damages 

Medical payments coverage : may pay medical expenses related to an auto accident 

Personal injury protection : may pay for your medical treatment, lost wages, or other accident–related expenses 

Our Coverage Calculator is your best friend when it comes to understanding the terms you need to know while comparing car insurance quotes. Other important terms include: 

Rental reimbursement may help pay your rental car costs while your car is being repaired as a result of a covered claim 

Emergency Roadside Service may pay for towing, tire changes, lockout service, and more in the event that your car becomes disabled 

Mechanical breakdown insurance may help cover costs from repairs if your vehicle breaks down, needs replacement parts, or suffers other mechanical problems 

2. Factor in Deductibles when Comparing Car Insurance Quotes 

A deductible is the amount of money you pay out of pocket towards a claim before your coverage applies. If you choose a higher deductible, it may lower your premium, but it's important to select the deductible amount you're comfortable paying should a loss occur. Make sure you choose the same deductible for each quote when comparing auto insurance rates with different insurers. 

3. Compare Liability Limits in Your Quote 

Liability coverage is required in most states. You can easily check your minimum state car insurance coverages but many elect to carry a higher liability limits for additional protection. 

If liability limit doesn't sound familiar, you may know it better in a format similar to this: 100/300/50 . 

That's just an example, but you'll commonly see three numbers listed together on an auto insurance quote. 

100 = $100,000 per person in bodily injury liability coverage limit 

300 = $300,000 per occurrence in bodily injury liability coverage 

50 = $50,000 per occurrence in property damage liability coverage 

Bodily injury liability coverage may pay if you are in an accident and responsible for another person's injury. 

Property damage liability coverage may pay if you're responsible for damage to another person's property. 

Other coverages, such as personal injury protection and uninsured motorists, also have different limits to choose from. It's important to make sure these coverage limits are similar when comparing car insurance quotes. 

For more details, review additional information on car insurance coverages . 

4. Check for Discounts and Save on Car Insurance 

A higher quote may actually cost less once all eligible discounts are applied. When comparing car insurance quotes, review which discounts each insurer offers and which ones you qualify for. GEICO provides a wide range of savings based on your vehicle, driving habits, education, affiliations, and policy choices. 

Common GEICO discounts include: 

Vehicle equipment savings: Cars with airbags, anti-lock brakes, daytime running lights, or newer model years may qualify for discounts. 

Safe driving & telematics: A clean driving record may reduce your premium, while enrollment in GEICO's DriveEasy telematics program may save you up to 10%* just for signing up. 

Driver education: Completing an approved defensive driving or driver training courses may earn you a discount. 

Good Student Discount: If you're a student, maintaining good grades may earn you a discount. 

Policy-based discounts: Bundling policies, insuring multiple vehicles, being a homeowner, buying early, shopping online, going paperless, paying in full, or enrolling in Auto Pay may all help lower your total cost. Discounts, savings, and eligibility vary by state and are subject to availability and policy terms. 

Reviewing available discounts ensures you're comparing quotes accurately and helps you find the best overall value. 

If you've stepped up your insurance terms game as a result of the above information, get a fast auto insurance quote from GEICO and see how much you could save. 

What is the Difference Between a Car Insurance Quote and a Policy Rate? 

A car insurance quote is an estimate based on information provided by the customer, while a policy rate is the actual premium amount that a customer pays for their insurance policy once it is in effect, typically based on more detailed underwriting and risk assessment. 

If complete information isn't provided when you get the quote or coverage information changes, the rate for your actual policy may change. 

Here are some examples of things that could cause differences between the quote amount and the policy rate. 

If you start a quote with your vehicle, make, and model but no vehicle identification number (VIN), your rate may change after you enter the full VIN. 

If you don't provide details about accidents you've been in (even minor ones), your policy rate may be higher. 

If you forget to provide details about the driving history for the drivers under the policy, that may lead to a higher rate. 

Before comparing auto insurance quotes from different providers, gather accurate and complete information to make the process faster. You'll need: 

A valid driver's license number 

Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for all vehicles 

Address where the vehicle will be stored 

Driving and claims history for you and any other drivers 

Car Insurance Quote Comparison Checklist 

When you compare car insurance quotes, focus on these key factors to ensure you're getting the best value for your needs: 

Coverage Options: Look for policies that cover essential needs (like liability and collision) and additional options, such as rental reimbursement or roadside service. GEICO offers flexible coverage plans, making it easy to customize the right level of protection for your lifestyle and budget. 

Price: Compare premiums, deductibles, and discounts across quotes. GEICO provides competitive rates and offers a variety of discounts that could significantly lower your premium, such as multi-policy, good driver, and military discounts. 

Customer Service & Claims: Consider the insurer's reputation for customer service and how easy it is to file a claim. GEICO has a straightforward, user-friendly claims process available 24/7, plus a 97% customer satisfaction rating, so you're covered whenever you need help. 

Compare car insurance quotes and find a policy that checks all the boxes—quality coverage, affordable prices, and reliable support—get a car insurance quote from GEICO today! 

Learn More 

GEICO's Financial Strength 

Auto Coverage Explained 

Extra Protection 

Vehicle Safety/Recall Information 

Car Buying & Financing Resources 

Insurance Terms 

Cheap Car Insurance 

Car Insurance Quote Comparison FAQs 

Why is it important to compare auto insurance quotes? 

Even though most insurance companies use similar customer information to provide a quote, each company has their own approach to pricing and discounts. Comparing quotes between different companies allows you to make the best coverage and price decision for your situation. 

Does a low car insurance rate mean you'll get the best coverage? 

Not always. Make sure when comparing quotes that you select the same coverages, policy limits, and deductibles. If any of these are different, it could result in a lower or higher quote. 

How does a car insurance quote differ from a policy rate? 

A car insurance quote is an estimate based on information provided by the customer, while a policy rate is the actual premium amount that a customer pays for their insurance policy once it is in effect. While the quoted price and the policy rate are often the same, the policy rate may be different if information such as driving history or recent accidents were not provided during the initial quote. 

Why might my final policy rate be different from my initial quote? 

If complete information isn't provided when you get the quote or coverage information changes, the rate for your actual policy may change. Here are some examples of things that could cause differences between the quote amount and the policy rate. 
If you start a quote with your vehicle, make, and model but no vehicle identification number (VIN), your rate may change after you enter the full VIN. 

If you don't provide details about accidents you've been in (even minor ones), your policy rate may be higher. 

If you forget to provide details about the driving history of the drivers under the policy, that may lead to a higher rate. 

What information do I need to get a car insurance quote? 

To get a car insurance quote, you'll likely need: 
A valid driver's license 

Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for all vehicles 

Address where the vehicle will be stored 

Driving and claims history for you and any other drivers 

How can I get the best insurance rate? 

Getting the best insurance rate typically involves comparing quotes from multiple insurers and checking to see if you qualify for available car insurance discounts —such as safe driver, multi-policy, or low-mileage discounts. 

What factors impact my car insurance quote? 

Age affects premiums because younger and senior drivers are statistically higher risk, while your driving history helps insurers predict the likelihood of future claims. Credit scores may also be used to assess financial reliability, and location is considered to account for differences in accident rates, theft, and potential repair costs. 

Please note: 

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages. 

*Average savings amount based on national GEICO New Policyholder survey data from June 2024 through May 2025. 

**Customer satisfaction based on an independent study conducted by Alan Newman Research, 2023. 

Recurring Card Payments charged to a credit or debit card and Electronic Funds Transfer payments made under a recurring payment plan are subject to installment fee charges. Please refer to your premium bill for installment fee details and amounts. 

Some discounts, coverages, payment plans and features are not available in all states or all GEICO companies, or in all situations. Motorcycle and ATV coverages are underwritten by GEICO Indemnity Company. Homeowners, renters, and condo coverages are written through non-affiliated insurance companies and are secured through the GEICO Insurance Agency, LLC. GEICO is a registered service mark of Government Employees Insurance Company, Washington, D.C. 20076; a Berkshire Hathaway Inc. subsidiary. © 2024 GEICO 

Get Auto Insurance Quote Start Quote 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
