# GEICO's Mobile App ~ Free Insurance App | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/web-and-mobile/mobile-apps/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/web-and-mobile/mobile-apps/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

GEICO's Mobile App ~ Free Insurance App | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Web and Mobile > GEICO's Mobile App ~ Free Insurance App 

GEICO's Mobile App 

We Invite You to Download the GEICO App 

This Free Mobile App Is Waiting 

Click here to download: 

You can also download now: 

Download Now 

We want to make insurance with GEICO as easy as possible. 

On the road or in life, no one else is headed where you are. That's why the GEICO insurance mobile app is here and ready to help you get where you're going, wherever that might be. So, grab some snacks and get ready to roll. We'll be right there with you. 

Explore the GEICO app and see why we provide the best mobile experience 

Digital Insurance ID Cards 

The days of rummaging through your wallet or glovebox for an insurance ID card are over. You can access your online insurance card directly from your mobile device. Here's what you can expect: 

Access your ID cards 24/7, online or offline 

View, email, or print your ID cards from the GEICO Mobile app or geico.com 

Add your ID cards to your Apple Wallet (for Apple users) 

Access ID Cards in the App 

Roadside Assistance 

No one likes being stranded in the middle of nowhere-or even in the middle of somewhere. GEICO Mobile is the fastest and easiest way to get help when you need it. 

Tow and emergency roadside help available 24/7 (including holidays) 

Request help in as little as 2 minutes 

Get Roadside Help in the App 

Easy Photo Estimate 

Did a runaway shopping cart leave a dent in your car? Save some time with the Easy Photo Estimate feature on the GEICO Mobile app. With GEICO's photo inspection tool, you can: 

Submit photos of your vehicle's fender bender 

Get an estimate of your vehicle damage in about 20 minutes 

Skip booking an appointment at an auto shop 

Open Easy Photo Estimate in the App 

Virtual Assistant 

Ever wish you had a person in your pocket that could answer questions about your policy, billing, or more? Us too. So just ask the GEICO Virtual Assistant. Available 24/7, just like GEICO. 

Vehicle Care 

Does your vehicle have deep dark secrets it's not telling you? With GEICO Mobile's Vehicle Care powered by CARFAX ® you can shed some light on your cars service history, check for open recalls, create a maintenance schedule, and more. 

See why we're #1. 

"Have nothing but great things to say, easy to make changes to policy, easy to make a claim, easy to contact someone if I have questions through the app." GEICO Customer Review on Google Play (05/14/2022) 
"It's a great way to see everything your Geico auto and home insurance offers and if you have a claim it has all the information you need! Great app!" GEICO Customer Review on the App Store (05/11/2022) 

More ways to access your GEICO policy. 

geico.com 
When you're out and about, you can access everything you need on geico.com. Our website is mobile friendly and includes all of the features you love. 

Get a quote for your car, motorcycle, and more 

Log in to your policy 

Report a claim 

Compare the features of geico.com and the awesome GEICO Mobile app. 

Want to shape the future of GEICO Mobile? Join Power Users today. 

Got questions? We've got answers. 

Do I need an account to use the GEICO Mobile app? 

You do not need to set up a separate account to service your policy through GEICO Mobile; you can log in using the same user ID/password you use online. However, you do not need an account to get a quote, file a claim, or access extra features! 

Will I stay permanently logged into the app? 

You can select "Keep Me Logged In" which will save your User ID and password to your device making logging into your policy effortless. 

How do I login with my fingerprint? 

If you have a device with a fingerprint sensor enabled and have a fingerprint stored on your device, you will receive a prompt asking if you'd like to use your fingerprint on your next login. 

How do I save my ID card for offline access? 

Once you have logged into the app and viewed your ID cards, they will be automatically saved to your device. Next time you're logged out, you can easily access your ID cards from the login screen. 

What about security/privacy in GEICO Mobile? 

GEICO cares about your security and privacy. All of your personal information is encrypted for any communication with GEICO servers. 

iPhone, iPad, iTunes, and App Store are trademarks of Apple Inc. Android and Google Play are trademarks of Google Inc. 

CARFAX is a registered trademark of CARFAX, Inc. 

The GEICO Mobile app and site received #1 rankings according to the Keynova Group Q1 and Q3 2021 Mobile Insurance Scorecards 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
