# Car Insurance Deductible Guide | GEICO

Source URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/car-insurance-deductibles/
Final URL: https://www.geico.com/information/aboutinsurance/auto/car-insurance-deductibles/
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Car Insurance Deductible Guide | GEICO Skip to main content 

Español 

Log In 

Menu 

Access Your Policy 

Log In With Mobile App 
or 
Auto Motorcycle ATV/UTV Golf Cart Snowmobile Homeowners Renters Condo Mobile Home Boat/PWC Commercial: Auto Commercial: Business Owners Commercial: General Liability Commercial: Professional Liability Commercial: Workers' Compensation RV Life Umbrella Identity Protection Landlord Flood Travel Overseas Medical Malpractice Classic Auto Pet Jewelry Mexico Auto Earthquake Event Bicycle 

Log In 
Activate your account 

Download the GEICO Mobile app 

Continue about Boat Insurance 

Continue about Life Insurance 

Simply, login to your auto policy to manage your umbrella policy. 

Continue about Umbrella Insurance 

Continue about Identity Protection Insurance 

Continue about Flood Insurance 

Continue about Travel Insurance 

Continue about Overseas Insurance 

Continue about Business Owners Insurance 

Continue about General Liability Insurance 

Continue about Professional Liability Insurance 

Continue about Workers' Compensation 

Continue about Medical Malpractice 

Log In 

Sign up for online access 

Continue about Classic Auto Insurance 

Continue about Pet Insurance 

For all other policies, log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Continue about Mexico Auto Insurance 

Continue about Earthquake Insurance 

Continue about Event Insurance 

Continue about Bicycle Insurance 

Don't have a GEICO Account? 

Look up the GEICO Insurance Agency partner your insurance policy is with to find policy service options and contact information. 

Claims Center 

Report an incident 

Track a claim 

Report glass-only damage 

Request roadside assistance 

Location 

Change Location Update 

Sorry, we couldn't find that ZIP code. Please try again. 

Español 

Insurance 

Information about GEICO 

Top Pages 
Insurance In Canada 

Contact Us 

Get An Insurance Quote 

Dark Mode 

Español 

Back 

Insurance 

Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Car 

Motorcycle 

ATV 

RV 

Boat & PWC 

Collector Auto 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Mexico Auto 

Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners 

Renters 

Condo/Co-op 

Mobile Home 

Landlord 

Flood 

Earthquake 

Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners 

General Liability 

Professional Liability 

Cyber Liability 

Workers' Compensation 

Medical Malpractice 

Wellness & Fitness 

Commercial Auto 

Truck 

Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella 

Life 

Travel 

Overseas 

Identity Protection 

Pet 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry 

Event 

Bicycle 

Information 

My Account 

My Account 

Make a Payment 

Create Online Account 

GEICO Mobile App 

FAQs 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Claims and Roadside Help 

Report a Claim 

View a Claim 

Get Roadside Help 

Report Glass Damage 

Catastrophe Claims 

Estimate & Repair Locations 

About the Claims Process 

About Auto Repair Xpress® 

Tools and Resources 

GEICO Information Center 

About Our Products 

Military Program 

Federal Employees 

Insurance Discounts 

Coverage Calculator 

Commercial Auto FAQs 

Car Buying Resources 

State Specific Info 

Safety Information 

Life Event Planning 

Personal Property Calculator 

Home Loans 

Insurance Terms 

Parking Locator 

Vehicle Inspection Sites 

About GEICO 

About GEICO 

Careers 

Life at GEICO 

Corporate Information 

In the Community 

Press Releases 

B2B Services 

Associates & Retirees 

Insurers 

GEICO Commercials 

Web and Mobile 

Types of Web and Mobile Services 

GEICO Mobile App 

Amazon Alexa Skill 

Google Action 

GEICO Living 

Social Media 

Site Map 

Accessibility 

Contact Us 

You are about to leave geico.com 

When you click "Continue" you will be taken to a site owned by , not GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you provide directly to them is subject to the privacy policy posted on their website. 

Continue 

Home > Browse the GEICO Insurance Information Center > aboutinsurance > Car Insurance Coverage: Auto Coverage Types & More > Car Insurance Deductible Guide 

Car Insurance Deductible Guide 

What is a car insurance deductible? 

A car insurance deductible is the amount of money you pay toward an accident or claim before your coverage kicks in. There may be deductibles for coverages such as comprehensive, collision, uninsured motorist property damage, and personal injury protection. 

How does an auto insurance deductible work? 

Let's say you have collision coverage, with a $250 deductible, and are involved in a car accident that causes $2,000 of damage to your vehicle. If you file a covered claim with your insurance company, then you will pay the $250 deductible, and your insurance carrier will pay the remaining $1,750 towards your car repairs. Your deductible is typically paid directly to the repair facility or may be deducted from your settlement should your vehicle be declared a total loss. 

With some exceptions, you will pay a deductible for each loss you file under your auto insurance policy. 

How do I choose the car insurance deductible amount? 

In most situations, you may choose the car insurance deductible amount for each coverage. You should consider several factors when making this decision. 

First, consider the dollar amount you want to be responsible for paying. In most situations, you will be required to pay your deductible when you file a claim under your own policy — so choose an amount you're comfortable paying out of pocket. 

Second, the deductible amount will impact your car insurance premium. If you choose a low deductible amount, then you'll likely be paying a higher insurance premium for the coverage. On the other hand, if you choose a high deductible amount, then you'll likely pay a lower insurance premium. You should compare and calculate how your deductible impacts your overall policy premium. 

When do you pay the deductible for car insurance? 

You pay a car insurance deductible when you file a claim under coverage that requires it, such as collision or comprehensive insurance. The deductible is typically paid directly to the repair shop or subtracted from the payout issued by your insurer. For example, if your car needs $3,000 worth of repairs after an accident and your deductible is $500, you would pay the repair shop $500, and your insurance would cover the remaining $2,500. In cases where your car is deemed a total loss, the deductible is subtracted from the settlement amount your insurer provides. This means if your car's value is determined to be $10,000 and your deductible is $1,000, you'd receive a $9,000 payout. 

In some scenarios, you might not pay the deductible immediately. For instance, if you're filing a claim to repair damages and your insurer works directly with the repair shop, the deductible may be included in the repair bill, which you'll pay once the repairs are complete. Alternatively, if your claim involves reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses, the deductible is subtracted before the payment is sent to you. 

Can a car insurance deductible be waived? 

In most situations, for coverages with a car insurance deductible, a deductible will apply - but there are some circumstances in which the deductible may be waived. For example, if you have comprehensive coverage and make a claim to repair windshield glass damage, then your deductible may be waived. Check with your insurance representative to verify what deductibles apply. In some states, you may purchase additional auto insurance coverage that will waive your deductible in some scenarios. Check your state reference page for more information. 

Now that you know more about how car insruance deductibles work, get a free car insurance quote from GEICO today. 

Do I owe a deductible if I hit someone else's car? 

Whether you owe a deductible if you hit someone else's car depends on the type of insurance coverage involved. If you file a claim under your collision coverage to repair your own vehicle, you'll typically need to pay the deductible listed in your policy. However, if the other driver is at fault and their insurance provider accepts liability, then their policy may cover your damages directly without you paying a deductible. If you are found at fault for causing damage to someone else's vehicle or property, your liability insurance will typically cover their costs with no deductible applied. Always check your specific policy and state laws to confirm how coverage is specifically applied for you. 

Please note: 

The above is meant as general information and as general policy descriptions to help you understand the different types of coverages. These descriptions do not refer to any specific contract of insurance and they do not modify any definitions, exclusions or any other provision expressly stated in any contracts of insurance. We encourage you to speak to your insurance representative and to read your policy contract to fully understand your coverages. 

Some discounts, coverages, payment plans and features are not available in all states or all GEICO companies. Coverage is subject to the terms, limits and conditions of your policy contract. 

Contact Us 

We're here for you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The quickest way to contact us is through our app or online. You can also chat for immediate help. 

Check Out a New Quote 

ATV Auto Bicycle Boat / PWC Business Owners Collector Auto Commercial Auto Condo / Co-op Earthquake Event Flood General Liability Home Identity Protection Jewelry Landlord Life Medical Malpractice Mexico Auto Mobile Home Motorcycle Overseas Pet Mobile Device Professional Liability Renters RV Travel Umbrella Workers' Compensation 
Look at Quote → 

You are about to leave geico.com 

Important Information: If you currently have an active flood insurance policy, please call us for the most accurate quote at (800) 566-1575 . 

If you don't currently have an active flood policy, click "Continue" to get a quote online. 

GEICO Insurance Agency, Inc. has partnered with to provide insurance products. When you click "Continue" you will be taken to their website, which is not owned or operated by GEICO. GEICO has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in connection with your use of their website. Any information that you directly provide is subject to the privacy posted on their website. 

Continue Continue 

Call (888) 395-1200 or log in to your current Homeowners , Renters , or Condo policy to review your policy and contact a customer service agent to discuss your jewelry insurance options. 

Learn More 

Car Insurance Coverages 

Comprehensive Coverage 

Collision Coverage 

Made by people just like you 

Quick Links 
Quick Links 

Pay a Bill / Make a Payment 

Enroll in Autopay 

Go Paperless 

Get Insurance ID Card 

File a Claim 

Emergency Roadside Service 

GEICO Living articles 

Vehicle Insurance 
Vehicle Insurance 

Types of Vehicle Insurance 

Auto Insurance 

Motorcycle Insurance 

ATV Insurance 

RV Insurance 

Boat/PWC Insurance 

Collector Auto Insurance 

Commercial Auto Insurance 

Mexico Auto Insurance 

Property Insurance 
Property Insurance 

Types of Property Insurance 

Homeowners Insurance 

Renters Insurance 

Condo/Co-op Insurance 

Mobile Home Insurance 

Landlord Insurance 

Flood Insurance 

Earthquake Insurance 

Business Insurance 
Business Insurance 

Types of Business Insurance 

Business Owners Insurance 

General Liability Insurance 

Professional Liability Insurance 

Cyber Liability Insurance 

Workers' Compensation Insurance 

Medical Malpractice Insurance 

Wellness & Fitness Insurance 

Additional Insurance 
Additional Insurance 

Types of Additional Insurance 

Umbrella Insurance 

Life Insurance 

Travel Insurance 

Overseas Insurance 

Identity Protection Insurance 

Pet Insurance 

Mobile Device Protection 

Jewelry Insurance 

Event Insurance 

Bicycle Insurance 

Legal & Security 
Legal & Security 

Privacy 

Terms of Use 

Notice & Personal Data Request 

Manage Cookie Preference 

Security 

Victims of Domestic Violence 

Contact & Support 
Contact & Support 

Careers 

Accessibility 

Site Map 

Español 

Contact Us 

GEICO © 1996- 2026
